aigpk docs (#2100)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: ai-gateway/concepts/bring-your-own-keys.mdx

description: Use your own provider API keys with the AI Gateway.
---

<Warning>
Configuring provider API keys in Traffic Policy (`providers[].api_keys`) is deprecated for standard providers. Use [Attached Provider Keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys) instead. Traffic Policy keys are still supported for [custom or self-hosted providers](#when-traffic-policy-keys-are-still-needed).
</Warning>

The recommended way to use your own provider API keys is to attach them directly to your [AI Gateway API Key](/ai-gateway/concepts/api-keys). ngrok encrypts and stores them—no Traffic Policy configuration or Vaults & Secrets needed.

See [Attaching Provider Keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys) to get started.

## When Traffic Policy keys are still needed

> Traffic Policy `providers[].api_keys` configuration is still required for:
> 
> - **Custom or self-hosted providers**: any provider with a `base_url` (Ollama, vLLM, custom endpoints). See [Custom Providers](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers).

Reviewer: Since this list only has one item now, let's just make it plain text.

```suggestion
Traffic Policy `providers[].api_keys` configuration is required for custom or self-hosted providers (that is, any provider with a `base_url` such as Ollama, vLLM, or custom endpoints). See [Custom Providers](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers) for more details.
```
